{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff13\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset204 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset204 Times;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset204 Helvetica;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset204 Helvetica;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset204 Courier;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}
{\f7\fnil\fcharset0 MT Extra;}
{\f8\fnil\fcharset238 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f9\fnil\fcharset238 Times;}
{\f10\fnil\fcharset238 Helvetica;}
{\f11\fnil\fcharset238 Helvetica;}
{\f12\fnil\fcharset238 Courier;}
{\f13\fnil\fcharset0 Times;}
{\f14\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\f15\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\f16\fnil\fcharset0 Courier;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\fs20\snext0 Normal;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40\li0 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s1\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40\li0 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24\li2048 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32\li512 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24\li2560 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32\li1024 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24\li1536 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 part;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was wysiwigslm.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 1.9.19 (released Nov 20 2007) on Thu Mar 24 19:56:55 2011
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f13\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw11960\paperh16900\margl2500\margr2560\margt2520\margb1820\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f13\aftnnar
{
\par\pard\qc {\fs30 \pard\qc\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Transparency in Sri Lanka Malay}
\par\pard\qc {\fs24 Sebastian Nordhoff}
\par\pard\qc {\fs24 }
\par\pard\qc {\fs24 }
\par\pard\qc {\fs24 }\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 1  Introduction\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Sri Lanka Malay is the language spoken by the descendants of soldiers, exiles, convicts and slaves brought by the colonial powers of the Dutch and the British from Indonesia and Malaysia to Sri Lanka. The first immigrants arrived in the middle of the seventeenth century. Sri Lanka Malay is by no means a dialect of Standard Malay, or Indonesian, but a \lquote language in its own right\rquote  (Adelaar1991). The grammatical differences between Standard Malay and Sri Lanka Malay are by far greater than the differences between Dutch and Afrikaans, for instance, and are more like the differences between Dutch and Hindi as far as grammar is concerned. This is due to the convergence of SLM towards Sinhala and Tamil, the dominant languages of Sri Lanka. This convergence took place in record time: the first immigrants arrived in the 17th century and spoke Malay dialects with SVO word order, prepositions and little morphology. Today, SLM has SOV word order, postpositions, and comparatively copious morphology as far as Malayic languages go. The lexicon, however, was almost unaffected by language contact: 90% of the vocabular is of Malay origin. There are currently around 60.000 ethnical Malays in Sri Lanka, but the number of speakers is much smaller due to the economic needs to learn English and Sinhala.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Sri Lanka Malay is a very transparent language in the sense of Hengeveld (this volume). There are little to no morphosyntactic accretions, no noteworthy irregularities (allomorphs etc), and a close connection between semantics and morphosyntax. This transparency is common in varieties of Malay. It is a retention of a historic feature and \i not \i0 due to language contact. The transparency of SLM has probably not increased since the arrival of the language on the island; if it has changed, it has probably become less transparent. This should not betray the fact that the language is the most transparent one presented in this volume; it just so happens that its ancestors where at least as transparent.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 In the following, I will chart the relation between the different levels of FDG ({Hengeveld & Mackenzie} 2008) in SLM as outlined in the introduction to this volume.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 2  Interpersonal-Representational\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_crossref}2.1{\*\bkmkend BMsec_crossref}  No crossreference\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Hengeveld & Mackenzie} (2008:350) speak of cross-reference when \lquote person marking on the verb is sufficient by itself and may optionally be expanded by a lexically realized argument.\rquote  There is no person marking on the verb in Sri Lanka Malay, so that this criterion does not apply. The following example shows that the form of the verb is invariant no matter the reference of the argument (represented by X). Whatever the person, number of gender of X, the verb will remain the same, \i su-dhaathang \i0 in ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_nocrossref \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.1}}}).\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_nocrossref}{\*\bkmkend BMex_nocrossref}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 X su-dhaathang \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 { } past-come\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote I/you/he/she/it/we/you/they came.\rquote  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMex_noappo1}2.2{\*\bkmkend BMex_noappo1}  No apposition\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In the mapping the interpersonal level to the representational level, apposition represents a one-to-many relation. This is not expected under transparency. Sri Lanka Malay is not transparent in this regard since it allows apposition. The following example shows an instance of apposition. The referents \i Mr Sebastian \i0 and {\i see\i0 } \lquote I\rquote  are introduced and subsequently refered to by the personal pronoun {\i kitham\i0 } \lquote we\rquote . \i Kitham \i0 alone is already sufficient on the representational level. However, {\i duuva\i0 } \lquote two\rquote  again refers to the same two referents in the world as does \i kitham\i0 ; we are dealing with apposition here.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
()\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Mr Sebastian aada, se aada, {\b kitham} {\b duuva} ar\u224?-oomong. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Mr Sebastian exist {\scaps 1s} exist {\scaps 1pl} two {\scaps non.past}-speak\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote You are here, I am here, the two of us are talking.\rquote  (K060116nar05) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMex_pred_v}2.3{\*\bkmkend BMex_pred_v}  No limitations on which semantic units can be chosen as predicates\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In transparent languages, we do not expect restrictions on what semantic units can be chosen as predicates.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 In Sri Lanka Malay, verbs, adjectives, modals and locatives can be used as predicates without further measures being taken. Only verbs can take TAM-prefixes though. TAM for other predicates must be expressed lexically.{\up16\chftn}
{\*\footnote \pard\plain\s246\f13\fs20 {\up16\chftn}Adjectives can convert to verbs and afford all of verbal morphology, but they are no longer adjectives then.}
\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
()\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Aajuth thaakuth=ka su-{\b naangis}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i V}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 dwarf fear={\scaps loc} {\scaps past}-weep \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote The dwarf wept in fear.\rquote  (K070000wrt04) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_pred_adj}{\*\bkmkend BMex_pred_adj}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Dee buthul {\b jahhath}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i A}{\i d}{\i j}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 3 very wicked \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote He was very wicked.\rquote  (K051205nar02) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_pred_modal}{\*\bkmkend BMex_pred_modal}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Deran=anng thumpath {\b maau}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i M}{\i o}{\i d}{\i a}{\i l}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} . \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 3pl=dat} place want \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote They wanted land.\rquote  (N060113nar01) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_pred_n}{\*\bkmkend BMex_pred_n}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Itthu bannyak laama hathu {\b ruuma}]{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 dist} very old {\scaps indef} house \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote That one was a very old house.\rquote  (K070000wrt04) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_pred_locational_NPka2}{\*\bkmkend BMex_pred_locational_NPka2}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Se=ppe kaake hathu {\b {\i estate}=ka}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i L}{\i o}{\i c}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 1s=poss} grandfather {\scaps indef} estate={\scaps loc} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote My grandfather was on an estate.\rquote  (K051205nar05) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 While further measures are not necessary, SLM has an optional copula, which can be used for nominal predicates.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_form_copula_asa_kin}{\*\bkmkend BMex_form_copula_asa_kin}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Baapa=pe umma {\b as\u224?dhaathang} kaake=pe aade. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 father={\scaps poss} mother {\scaps copula} grandfather={\scaps poss} younger.sibling. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote My paternal grandmother was my grandfather\rquote s younger sister.\rquote  (K051205nar05) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 3  Representational-Morphosyntactic\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_intro}3.1{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_intro}  No grammatical relations (but semantic or pragmatic alignment)\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In the mapping between the representational level and the morphosyntactic level, some languages use an intermediate level of grammatical relations, which can change the direct mapping of semantic function on morphosyntactic expression. In Sri Lanka Malay, there are no grammatical relations, instead the semantic function (agent, patient, recipient, etc) is directly mapped onto morphosyntax, where it is expressed by case postpositions. The following example shows the use of the postpositions {\i =yang\i0 } \lquote {\scaps acc}\rquote , {\i =dering\i0 } \lquote {\scaps abl}\rquote  and {\i =nang\i0 } \lquote {\scaps goal}\rquote . The agent {\i incayang\i0 } \lquote he\rquote  is not marked by a postposition.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {14cm}{ \par
()\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Itthu baathu={\b yang} incayang Seelong={\b dering} laayeng nigiri={\b nang} as\u224?-baapi. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 dist} stone={\scaps acc} {\scaps 3s.polite} Ceylon-{\scaps abl} other country={\scaps dat} {\scaps cp}-bring\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 { } {\scaps pat} {\scaps ag} {\scaps src} { } {\scaps goal} {\scaps v}\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote He brought those stones from Ceylon to other countries.\rquote  (nosource) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Crucially, there is no way of changing the case postposition an argument takes. While the English Passive Alternation as in \i she beat him/he was beaten by her \i0 changes the marking of the patient from accusative to nominative and the marking of the agent from nominative to oblique \i by\i0 -agent, in SLM such operations do not exist. There is no possibility to promote of demote an argument morphosyntactically.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {Nordhoff} (2009) has applied an array of tests for subjecthood to Sri Lanka Malay; none of the tests yielded evidence for the category \ldblquote subject\rdblquote  (or \ldblquote object\rdblquote ). For reasons of space, the tests will not be repeated here. However, the three traditional coding properties of subjects can briefly be discussed. These are agreement, word order and case marking. As discussed in Section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsec_crossref \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.1}}}, there is no agreement in SLM. Word order in SLM is generally verb-final, but the arguments of the verb can occur in any order to the left of the verb. This can already be seen from example ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_gramrel_intro \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3.1}}}), where we find the order {\scaps pat ag src goal v}. If word order were an important parameter, we would either expect the subject in initial position (SOV) or in direct vicinity of the verb (OSV). In ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_gramrel_intro \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3.1}}}), neither is the case. The best candidate for subjecthood, the pronoun \i incayang \i0 is neither in initial position nor adjacent to the verb. ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_gramrel_intro \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3.1}}}) thus already sheds doubt on word order as a criterion for grammatical relations. {Nordhoff} (2009) discusses variations in word order in more detail and concludes that word order in the preverbal field is completely free and cannot be used to establish grammatical relations. The last criterion is case marking. If we find that the only argument of an intransitive predicate (S) is always case-marked in the same way as either the actor (A) or the undergoer (P) of a transitive sentence, we have good arguments for subjecthood. This test also fails in SLM. The only argument of an intransitive predicate in SLM can be marked with either zero, {\i =yang\i0 } \lquote {\scaps acc}\rquote , {\i =nang/=dang\i0 } \lquote {\scaps dat}\rquote , or {\i =dering\i0 } \lquote abl\rquote .\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_intrans_0}{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_intrans_0}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Dee={{{\f6\'C6}}}{} su-thiidor baava=ka. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 3s} {\scaps past}-sleep down={\scaps loc} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote He slept downstairs.\rquote  (K051205nar05) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_intrans_acc}{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_intrans_acc}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {\i Titanic} kappal={\b yang} su-th\u236?nggalam. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Titanic ship={\scaps acc} {\scaps past}-sink \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote The ship \ldblquote Titanic\rdblquote  sank.\rquote  (K081104eli05) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_intrans_dat}{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_intrans_dat}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Go={\b dang} karang bannyak th\u224?r\u224?s\u236?ggar. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 1{\scaps s.familiar}={\scaps dat} now very sick \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote I am now very sick.\rquote  (B060115nar04) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_intrans_abl}{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_intrans_abl}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {\i Police}={\b dering} su-dhaathang. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 police={\scaps instr} {\scaps past}-come \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote The police came.\rquote  (K081105eli02) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 For transitive sentences, the most typical case combinations include\par
{\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {{{\f6\'C6}}}-{{{\f6\'C6}}}{} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {{{\f6\'C6}}}{}-{\scaps acc} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {{{\f6\'C6}}}{}-{\scaps dat} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\scaps dat}-{{{\f6\'C6}}}{} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\scaps dat}-{\scaps acc} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\scaps dat}-{\scaps dat} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\scaps abl}-{{{\f6\'C6}}} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\scaps abl}-{\scaps acc} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab {\scaps abl}-{\scaps dat} \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 There is no space here to illustrate all these patterns, but the following three examples should suffice to illustrate the diversity.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_trans_0d}{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_trans_0d}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Rose-red={{{\f6\'C6}}}{} buurung={\b nang} su-puukul. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Rose-red bird={\scaps dat} {\scaps past}-hit \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote Rose-red hit the bird.\rquote  (K070000wrt04) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_trans_ad}{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_trans_ad}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 aathi={\b yang} sajja hatthu oorang={\b nang} bole=ambel. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 liver={\scaps acc} only one man={\scaps dat} can-take \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote Only one person can take the liver.\rquote  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_gramrel_trans_ab}{\*\bkmkend BMex_gramrel_trans_ab}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 See={\b yang} {\i police}{\b =dering} nya-preksa. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 1s}={\scaps acc} police={\scaps abl} {\scaps past}-enquire \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote I was questioned by the police.\rquote  (K051213nar01) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Given this diversity of case marking, it is obvious that there is no clear mapping between the cases found in intransitive sentences and in transitive sentences. This means that the third coding property for subjects, case marking, fails as well.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 3.2  No discontinuity\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Tearing apart in morphosyntax something which belongs together in semantics is an intransparent operation, leading to discontinuous constituents. Such constituents are not found in Sri Lanka Malay.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_functionmarking}3.3{\*\bkmkend BMsec_functionmarking}  Function marking and derivational processes not sensitive to nature of input\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The marking of a semantic function is the more transparent the less parameters it depends on. The most transparent relation is found in cases where the only parameter is the semantic function itself, and other parameters from the realm of morphosyntax or phonology do not play a role. That is, it should make no difference to the expression of a function whether the referent is encoded as a noun, a pronoun, an adjective, a clause, or anything else. This is what we find in Sri Lanka Malay: function marking is indeed indifferent to morphosyntactic properties. Semantic roles are marked by enclitic postpositions, e.g. the dative marker \i =nang\i0 , which can mark recipient, experiencer, and manner, among other roles. These postpositions can attach to any type of argument. The following examples show \i =nang \i0 attached to a noun, a pronoun, a deictic, an adjective and a clause. There is thus no morphosyntactic restriction on the combinatorial properties of \i =nang \i0 with this set. The same is true for the other postpositions, like {\i =yang\i0 } \lquote {\scaps acc}\rquote , but these are more difficult to combine with clauses for semantic reasons.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_n}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_n}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Laayeng nigiri=pe soojor pada=nang baae {\b lakuvan}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}=nang an\u224?-juuval. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 different country={\scaps poss} European {\scaps pl}={\scaps dat} good price={\scaps dat} {\scaps past}-sell \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote (He) sold (it) to the Europeans from the other countries for a good price.\rquote  (K060103nar01) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_pron}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_pron}{\b \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Kithang}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i P}{\i r}{\i o}{\i n}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}=nang baaye=nang mulbar bole=baaca. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 1pl}={\scaps dat} good={\scaps dat} Tamil can=read \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote We can read Tamil well.\rquote  (K051222nar06) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_deic}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_deic}{\b \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Itthu}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i D}{\i e}{\i i}{\i c}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}=nang blaakang aapa nya-gijja?  \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 dist}={\scaps dat} after what {\scaps past}-make \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote What did (they) do then? \rquote  (K051206nar07) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_adj}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_adj}{\b \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Baae}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i A}{\i d}{\i j}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}=nang ar\u224?-nyaanyi. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 good={\scaps dat} {\scaps non.past}-sing. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote He sings well.\rquote  (K081103eli02) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_v}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_v}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Suda buthul suuka nyaari siini su-{\b dhaathang}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i C}{\i L}{\i S}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}{\b =nang }. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 thus correct like today here {\scaps past}-come={\scaps dat} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote So I very much liked that you came here today.\rquote  (G051222nar01) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Maximally transparent derivational markers should also not show selectivity with regard to their host. This is true for the (derivational) plural marker \i pada\i0 . The following examples show the use of the plural marker on a noun, a pronoun, a deictic, and a relative clause.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_pada_n}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_pada_n}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Itthu vatthu=ka itthu {\b nigiri}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} {\b pada}=ka ar\u224?-duuduk. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 dist} time={\scaps loc} {\scaps dist} land {\scaps pl}={\scaps loc} {\scaps non.past}-stay \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote At that time, (they) lived in those countries.\rquote  (N060113nar01) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_pada_pron}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_pada_pron}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Itthu=nam blaakang=jo, {\b kitham}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i P}{\i r}{\i o}{\i n}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} {\b pada} an\u224?-b\u236?ssar. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 dist} after={\scaps emph} {\scaps 1pl} {\scaps pl} {\scaps past}-big\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote After that, we grew up.\rquote  (K060108nar02) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_pada_deic}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_pada_deic}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Incayang {\b ithu}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i D}{\i e}{\i i}{\i c}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} {\b pada}=yang kapang-thumpa-king, {\b itthu}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i D}{\i e}{\i i}{\i c}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} {\b pada} sraathus binthan pada ar\u224?-kiilap=ke su-kiilap. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 3s.polite} {\scaps dem.dist} {\scaps pl}={\scaps acc} when-spill-{\scaps caus} {\scaps dem.dist} {\scaps pl} 100 stars {\scaps pl} {\scaps simult}-shine={\scaps simil} {\scaps past}-shine \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote When he spilled them, they shone like a hundred shining stars.\rquote  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_pada_cls}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_pada_cls}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 [[Seelon=nang an\u224?-dhaathang]{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i C}{\i L}{\i S}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} pada] mlaayu pada. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Ceylon={\scaps dat} {\scaps past}-come {\scaps pl} Malay {\scaps pl} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote Those who had come to Ceylon were the Malays.\rquote  (N060113nar01) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 While the plural marker is not selective to the nature of its host, the same is not true of the nominalizer \i -an \i0 and the causativizer \i -king\i0 . \i -an \i0 can attach to verbs, adjectives and nouns, but not to pronouns, deictics or clauses.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_an_v}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_an_v}{\b \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 jalang}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i V}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}-an hatthu ar\u224?-pii vakthu \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 walk-{\scaps nmlzr} {\scaps indef} {\scaps non.past}-go time \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote when we go on a trip\rquote  (K051213nar06) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_an_adj}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_an_adj}{\b \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Manis}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i A}{\i D}{\i J}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}-an maakang=nang go suuka bannyak. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 sweet-{\scaps nmlzr} eat=\i0\b0\scaps {dat} {\scaps 1s.familiar} like much\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote I like very much to eat sweets.\rquote  (B060115prs20) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 In rare cases can \i -an \i0 be found on nouns, like {\i raja-han\i0 } \lquote king\rquote +\lquote {\scaps nmlzr}\rquote =\lquote govern\-ment\rquote . This is another use of \i -an\i0 , also found in Standard Malay, and indicates \lquote collectivity\rquote  or \lquote similarity\rquote  when attached to nouns, according to {Adelaar} (1985:193). This meaning seems to be at hand here as well, where a government can be seen as a collection of kings, or similar to a king.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 The selectivity of \i -an \i0 is quite clear in SLM, nevertheless, there is one instance of a nominalization after inflection, i.e. nominalization of a phrase rather than of a stem. This is {\i thradahan\i0 } \lquote deprivation\rquote  which is composed of the negative prefix \i th\u224?r\u224?-\i0 , the existential \i aada, \i0 and the nominalizer. The non-negated form {\i adahan\i0 } \lquote possession\rquote  also exists. One could argue that the negation takes place after derivation, however, \i th(\u224?)r\u224?- \i0 is not a morpheme which can attach to nouns, so that \i th(\u224?)r\u224?- \i0 must have been joined with \i a(a)da \i0 before the derivation. This makes the selection restrictions of \i -an \i0 less narrow, but it is still true that in the great majority of cases, \i -an \i0 cannot be used to nominalize phrases; it can only be used to nominalize stems.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 The causativizer \i -king \i0 is another derivational morpheme. It can attach to verbs and adjectives and marginally to nouns, but not to pronouns, deictics or clauses either.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_king_adj}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_king_adj}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Itthu=ka as\u224?-thaaro, itthu=yang ar\u224?-{\b panas}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i A}{\i D}{\i J}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}-{\b king}. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 dist}={\scaps loc} {\scaps cp}-put {\scaps dist}={\scaps acc} {\scaps non.past}-hot-{\scaps caus} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote Having put (it) there, you heat it.\rquote  (B060115rcp02) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_king_v}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_king_v}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Baaye meera caaya kapang-jaadi, {\b thurung}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i V}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}-{\b king}. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 good red colour when-become, descend-{\scaps caus} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote When [the food] has turned to a nice rose colour, remove (it) [from the fire].\rquote  (K060103rec02) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_funcmark_king_n}{\*\bkmkend BMex_funcmark_king_n}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Spaaman=yang as\u224?-{\b kafan}{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}-{\b king}, spaaman=yang sithu=ka nya-kubuur-king. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 3s.polite}={\scaps acc} {\scaps cp}-shroud-{\scaps caus} {\scaps 3s.polite}={\scaps acc} there={\scaps loc} {\scaps past}-buried-{\scaps caus} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote The body was wrapped in cloth and then the body was finally buried.\rquote  (B060115nar05) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 It can be noted that \i -an \i0 is a suffix on prosodic grounds while \i pada \i0 is a clitic. This is mirrored by their morphosyntactic behaviour: \i pada \i0 does not care for the nature of its host, while \i -an \i0 does. \i -king \i0 on the other hand has an intermediate position with regard to prosody, where there are reasons to treat it as a suffix, but also as a clitic. This is not mirrored by its morphosyntactic properties.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 4  Morphosyntactic\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMex_expl_uujang}4.1{\*\bkmkend BMex_expl_uujang}  No expletive elements\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Transparent languages should not have elements in morphosyntax that correspond to nothing on the representational level. This is the case in SLM. SLM has no dummy subjects. The non-existence of items is always difficult to demonstrate, here I use a meteorological verb, where no expletive element is present, and none can be present.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
()\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Ar\u224?-uujang\par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 non.past}-rain\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote It is raining.\rquote  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMex_noappo_maccan}4.2{\*\bkmkend BMex_noappo_maccan}  No duplicate elements\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Transparent languages should encode information from the representational level exactly once, and note several time. This principle is violated by the SLM indefinite article \i hatthu\i0 . One occurrence would be enough to signal the unidentifiable status of the referent to the hearer, yet it is often found twice, as in ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_noappo_maccan \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4.2}}}). This is an intransparent mapping between the representational and the morphosyntactic level.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
()\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Sithu=ka {\b hathu}=maccan={\b hathu} duuduk aada. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 there={\scaps loc} {\scaps indef}=tiger={\scaps indef} stay exist \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote There was a tiger.\rquote  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMex_consecutio}4.3{\*\bkmkend BMex_consecutio}  No tense copying\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Transparent languages are expected to show always the \lquote real\rquote  tense value from the representational level in morphosyntax. Changing tenses (tense copying, consecutio temporum) are not expected. Thus, constructions like English \i He said that he had two brothers \i0 , where the past tense is used despite the present tense meaning are not expected to occur in transparent languages. Inded, SLM does not show tense copying.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
()\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Incayang su-biilang duuva kaaka ar\u224?-duuduk katha \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 3s} {\scaps past}-say two elder.brother {\scaps non.past} exist.{\scaps anim} {\scaps quot}\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote He said that he has two elder brothers/ that there exist two brothers (to him).\rquote  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 While no past tense form is ever used for present contexts, it is possible to find the non-past form \i ar\u224? \i0 in past contexts. As argued for in {Nordhoff} (2009:289f), this is due to the polysemy of this form. Besides the more common meaning as \lquote non-past\rquote , this form can also be used as \lquote simultaneous\rquote , and this is what we find in examples like ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_consecutio_simult \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4.3}}}).\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_consecutio_simult}{\*\bkmkend BMex_consecutio_simult}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Blaakang=jo incayang an\u224?-kuthumung [moonyeth pada thoppi as\u224?-ambel pohong atthas=ka {\b ar\u224?}-maayeng]. \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 after={\scaps emph} {\scaps 3s.polite} {\scaps past}-see monkey {\scaps pl} hat {\scaps cp}-take tree top={\scaps loc} {\scaps simult}-play \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote Then only he saw that the monkeys had taken his hats and were playing on the top of the trees.\rquote  (K070000wrt01) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 While polysemy is not exactly transparent either, the intransparency we find here is due to the lexical entry of \i ar\u224?-\i0 , and not to a morphosyntactic rule of tense copying.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 4.4  No raising\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In a transparent language, we would expect every argument to surface in the clause where it semantically belongs. Raising constructions like \i John seems to be intelligent \i0 are not transparent in the sense that \i John \i0 semantically is an argument of the lower clause but shows up in the higher clause in morphosyntax. Such structures are not found in Sri Lanka Malay.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 4.5  No grammatical gender, declination, conjugation\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 A transparent language is not expected to have elements in morphosyntax which are not motivated on semantic grounds, i.e. elements whose form depends on arbitrary criteria like membership in a certain declension or conjugation class, or grammatical gender. Sri Lanka Malay has no declension or conjugation classes. There is no arbitrary gender assignment (as in German or French) either, even natural gender (sex-based classification) is very marginal. The only instance I am aware of is the pair {\i puthra\i0 } \lquote prince\rquote , {\i puthri\i0 } \lquote princess\rquote .\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 4.6  No agreement (but pronominal arguments)\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 As stated above in Section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsec_crossref \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.1}}}, there is no cross-reference, and thus no agreement.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 4.7  Phrase marking through clitics rather than head marking through affixes\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 This is also what we find in SLM as discussed in Section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsec_functionmarking \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3.3}}}.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 4.8  No fusional morphology\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Transparent languages are not expected to express more than one meaning per morpheme. This is to say that we do not expect any fused portmanteau forms. While in the great lines, SLM does not have fusional morphology, some allomorphs of case markers could be analyzed as portmanteau forms. This is the case for the allomorph \i =dang \i0 of the dative marker \i =nang\i0 . This is obligatory for the monosyllabic pronouns {\i see\i0 } \lquote 1s\rquote , {\i goo\i0 } \lquote 1s\rquote , {\i luu\i0 } \lquote 2s\rquote , {\i dee\i0 } \lquote 3s\rquote . Another instance is the allomorph \i =ppe \i0 of the possessive marker \i =pe\i0 , which attaches to the same four items. One can then postulate that both \i =dang \i0 and \i =ppe \i0 carry a meaning of {\scaps singular} and {\scaps pronoun} besides their normal case semantics. This means that more than one meaning is expressed in one form, an instance of fusional morphology.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 5  Morphosyntactic/Phonological\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 5.1  Phonological phrasing and morphosyntactic phrasing run parallel\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In the interface between morphosyntax and phonology, a transparent mapping is found if there is a 1:1 correspondence between morphosyntactic phrasing and phonological phrasing. The Major morphosyntactic consituent in Sri Lanka Malay are the clause CLS, the predicate PRED and the noun phrase NP. NPs are not restricted to nominal heads. Indeed, numerals, adjectives, pronouns, deictics, quantifiers, and even sentences and utterances can head NPs without further measures being taken. This means that the normal structure of the clause can be represented as NP* PRED. On the phonological level, {Nordhoff} (2009) distinguishes Presuppositive Phrases with a LH boundary tone from Assertive Phrases with a L boundary tone. There seems to be a 1:1 mapping of NPs on Presuppositive Phrases, and PRED on Assertive Phrases, so that the phrasing runs parallel on both levels and is therefore transparent.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 {\*\bkmkstart BMex_rightextraction_quot}5.2{\*\bkmkend BMex_rightextraction_quot}  Phonological weight does not influence morphosyntactic placement\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 A dramatically transparent language would completely ignore phonological weight when determining the order of constituents. Constituent order would be solely determined by semantics. This is not the case for SLM. While normally all arguments are preverbal, very heavy constituents can be shifted to postverbal position. This is frequently found for reported utterances ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_rightextraction_quot \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5.2}}}), but other constituents can also be shifted, for instance the complement of a modal in ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_rightextraction_modal \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5.2}}}).\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
()\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Se=ppe oorang thuuva pada an\u224?-biilang [{\b kithang} {\b pada} {\b {\i Malaysia}=dering} {\b an\u224?-dhaathang} {\b katha}].\par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 1s=poss} man old {\scaps pl} {\scaps past}-say {\scaps 1pl} {\scaps pl} Malaysia={\scaps abl} {\scaps past}-come {\scaps quot} \par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote My elders said that we had come from Malaysia.\rquote  \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_rightextraction_modal}{\*\bkmkend BMex_rightextraction_modal}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Kitha=nang maau [{\b kitham=pe} {\b mlaayu} {\b lorang} {\b blaajar} {\b lorang=pe} {\b mlaayu} {\b kitham} {\b blaajar}]{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}{\i P}})}}}{\fldrslt }}}. \par
{\scaps \pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 1pl}={\scaps dat} want {\scaps 1pl}={\scaps poss} Malay {\scaps 2pl} learn {\scaps 2pl}={\scaps poss} Malay {\scaps 1pl} learn\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote We want that you learn our Malay and that we learn your Malay.\rquote  (K060116nar02) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Right extraposition of heavy constituents is one possibility to facilitate parsing, the other one is shifting heavy nominal modifiers to the right. This is what can be found with relative clauses as in ({\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMex_leftextraction_modal \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5.2}}}), where the relative clause consisting of eleven morphemes is shifted to the left, and the short indefinite marker \i hatthu \i0 is now found between the relative clause and the head noun. Semantically, \i hatthu \i0 should have scope over the relative clause as well, but this is not mirrored in morphosyntax; the phonological weight has taken precedence over semantic considerations when placing the constituents in this sentence.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}{ \par
(){\*\bkmkstart BMex_leftextraction_modal}{\*\bkmkend BMex_leftextraction_modal}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 [{\b Seelon=le} {\b kithang=pe} {\b mlaayu=nang=le} {\b hatthu} {\b bagiyan} {\b an\u224?-aada}]{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i R}{\i E}{\i L}{\i C}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} [hatthu]{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i I}{\i N}{\i D}{\i E}{\i F}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} [nigiri]{{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i N}})}}}{\fldrslt }}} su-jaadi\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Ceylon={\scaps addit} {\scaps 1pl}={\scaps poss} Malay={\scaps dat}={\scaps addit} {\scaps indef} part exist {\scaps indef} country {\scaps past}-become\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \lquote Ceylon became a country where our Malays also have a part in.\rquote  (K051222nar04) \par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\s3\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 6  Phonology\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 6.1  No sandhi rules\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In a transparent languages, there should be no word-external sandhi. In SLM, we can distinguish combinations of base+affix, base+clitic, compounds, and combinations of independent words as candidate domains for sandhi. As for affixes, we find that the numeral suffixes {\i -blas\i0 } \lquote -teen\rquote  and {\i -pulu\i0 } \lquote -ty\rquote  cause a labial articulation of the final nasal in the word {\i dhlaapan\i0 } \lquote eight\rquote  (\i dhlapamblas, dhlapampulu\i0 ) as well as the dropping of the final consonant in {\i \u249?mpath\i0 } \lquote four\rquote  at least for some realizations of {\i \u249?mpa(th)pulu\i0 } \lquote forty\rquote . Combinations of base+clitic also often show assimilation of nasals to the following consonant, e.g. {\i oorang\i0 } \lquote man\rquote +{\i =pe\i0 } \lquote {\scaps poss}\rquote ={\i oorampe\i0 } \lquote of the man\rquote . Compounds and strings of independent words generally do not undergo sandhi.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 6.2  No degemination\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In a transparent mapping of morphology onto phonology, we would not expect the reduction of geminates caused by the collision of a coda with an identical onset of an affix. SLM shows non-transparent features in this regard. The word \i baalek \i0 is an intransitive verb meaning \lquote to return\rquote . When the causativizer \i -king \i0 is attached to it to yield a transitive verb, the form is not \i balekking\i0 , but \i baleking\i0 , so that we are dealing with degemination. This is true for affixation. With enclitic postpositions, degemination is not found, so the combination of {\i aanak\i0 } \lquote child\rquote  with the locative enclitic \i =ka \i0 is pronounced [TEXTIPA{a:nakka}] and not [TEXTIPA{a:naka}].\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 6.3  No diphthongization\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In a transparent language, the pronunciation of a phoneme should remain the same (as far as this is phonetically possible at all) in any environment. A vowel should always be pronounced as a vowel, and never as a semivowel. In some languages, chance meetings of two vowels cause one vowel to be pronounced as a semi-vowel, yielding a diphthong. This phenomenon is not found in Sri Lanka Malay.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\s4\ql\sb240\sa60\keepn\f13\b\fs32 6.4  No nasalization\par
}\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In line with what has been said above about diphthongization, an oral vowel should always be pronounced as oral, regardless of whether there are nasal consonants in its environment. This has not been investigated for Sri Lanka Malay. Given the mechanics of the articulatory tract and basic principles of economy, it is unlikely that speakers make efforts to keep all their vowels oral in a nasal environement. While it might be possible to rapidly move the velum back and forth in a word like {\i maangga=nang\i0 } \lquote for the mango\rquote  to switch between oral vowels and nasal consonants, it is much more likely that the speakers will avoid the effort involved and pronounce most if not all of the vowels as nasal.\par
{\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\plain\b\fs32 References}\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \li450\fi-450 {\scaps Adelaar}, K.\~A. (1985). {\i Proto-Malayic; The reconstruction of its phonology and parts of its morphology and lexicon}. Ph.D. thesis, Leiden University.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi-450 {\scaps Hengeveld}, K. & L.\~{\scaps Mackenzie} (2008). {\i Functional Discourse Grammar}. Oxford: Oxford University Press.\par
\pard\qj\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi-450 {\scaps Nordhoff}, S. (2009). {\i A Grammar of Upcountry Sri Lanka Malay}. Ph.D. thesis, University of Amsterdam.\par
}}}
